# dsl_tutarial

a simple DSL demo

## run

```shell

npm i 

```

## about antlr4ts

this command tool will output 8 files

`stateMachineLexer.ts`: this file contains the implementation of the lexer, which is responsible for breaking the input text into tokens. the lexer uses the token definitions from your grammar file to recognize and tokenize the input text.

`stateMachineParser.ts`: this is the main entry point for your parser. it contains the parse() method, which takes a string of input text and returns an abstract syntax tree (AST) or a parse tree.

## what is the Listener and Visitor of antlr

### Listener

A Listener is an interface that allows you to react to events during the parsing process. When the parser recognizes a rule or token, it notifies the listener about the event. The listener can then perform some action based on the event.

In ANTLR 4ts, the MyErrorListener class is an example of a Listener. It provides methods like syntaxError(), reportError(), and recognize() that allow you to handle errors and warnings during the parsing process.

### Visitor

A Visitor is an interface that allows you to traverse and manipulate the abstract syntax tree (AST) generated by the parser. A visitor can visit each node in the AST, perform some action on the node, and then continue traversing the tree.

In ANTLR 4ts, the MyVisitor class is an example of a Visitor. It provides methods like visit() that allow you to visit each node in the AST, perform some action on the node (e.g., transforming or filtering the node), and then continue traversing the tree.

When you implement a Visitor, you can:

1. Traverse the AST and perform some action on each node.
2. Manipulate the AST by adding, removing, or modifying nodes.
3. Use the visitor to extract information from the AST.

Visitors are useful when you want to perform complex operations on the parse tree or abstract syntax tree (AST), such as:

1. Converting a source file to another format (e.g., converting JSON to XML).
2. Validating the syntax of a program against a set of rules.
3. Generating code for a programming language.

## other

`tsconfig-paths` fixed ts-node path problem
